feat: warn users who are falling behind reprovides (#9886)
ipfs/kubo: docs/config.md

Type: `optionalString` (`null`/missing means the default)

### `Routing.AcceleratedDHTClient`

> Utilizes an alternative DHT client that searches for and maintains more information
> about the network in exchange for being more performant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Utilizes an alternative DHT client that searches for and maintains more information
about the network in exchange for improved provide latency performance (upwards of 100x).
```
(I made up the number above - I can't remember the actual numbers.  Maybe they are in the changelog for when we first released this?)

Can we maybe expand this by a sentence or two?  Is there a talk or doc we can link to?

Maybe something along the lines of...

```
This accelerated DHT client builds up a bamp of various nodes that can satisfy the keyspace.  This helps both with reads and writes:
* Reads - Traversed DHT results have been cached and know the closest nodes to query.
* Writes - In addition to having the cached traversed DHT results to know the direct n=20 nodes to store records with, records are batched so that do a single write with a large batch of records for a given provider.
```

(I know that's not a great writeup - but would like to have some more text that helps someone conceptually understand what is going on, or provide a link where someone can learn more so it's more self-service to reason about the system.)

Reviewer: I guess some of these details are covered below in the "when it is enabled" section.  I mostly just want to make sure we help explain the concept of what's happening.

Author: I'll rework that section in the docs, I don't think changelogs should go in that much details, just link to docs that are that detailed.

Author: Btw the number is roughly 6 millions. 6 millions times faster.

Author: I belive that for all 20 provides, because almost all the time one of them will timeout and the timeout is 30s ?
Anyway 5µs is so small even if puts took 250ms this would still be way faster.

This is not compatible with `Routing.Type` `custom`. If you are using composable routers
you can configure this individualy on each router.

When it is enabled:

> - DHT operations should complete much faster than with it disabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- DHT operations (reads and writes) should complete much faster
```

> - A batching reprovider system will be enabled which takes advantage of some
>   properties of the experimental client to very efficiently put provider records into the network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A batching reprovider system will be enabled which takes advantage of some
  properties of the accelerated client to very efficiently put provider records into the network
```

> - The standard DHT client (and server if enabled) are run alongside the accelerated DHT client

Reviewer: What are the ramifications of this?  Is this to say that enabling the accelerated DHT client will perform no worse than when it's disabled (other than the fact that more resources are used) since it is purely additive?

Author: This is a technicality, we do not trust (/ have not tested) the fullrt (strategy used by the accelerated client) to not cause harm to the overall network health if used at wide scale for routing.

This last sentence explains that you will continue to use use the well tested bucket RT for responding to DHT requests from other nodes. So by you turning on the accelerated DHT client you are not accelerating others DHT lookups faster, however this is at the gain of a reasonable believe that the network topology will not topple over.

Events like https://blog.ipfs.tech/2023-ipfs-unresponsive-nodes/ could very well have been much worst if thoses 50% of nodes didn't just affected the final client doing the lookup, but also the answer you are getting from the 50% of the network that is up. Or they could have not, I don't know we havn't tested that with fullrt.

---

We already running 2 (lan, wan) x 2 (client, server) DHTs by default, all running bucket RT. AcceleratedDHTClient change this to: fullrt client, bucketrt server.

Author: Wait this text says the standard client still runs
I don't belive this is true, only standard server no standard server.

Author: This is correct.

> - The operations `ipfs stats dht` will default to showing information about the accelerated DHT client

Reviewer: We say the word "default".  Is there a way for a user to change this when the accelerated DHT client is enabled?

Author: `ipfs stats dht` is default, `ipfs stats dht wansever` is when the user overrides.

Author: `ipfs stats dht` is indeeed a shorthand for `ipfs stats dht wan`. I agree with you the comment is weird.
I think the point is that by default `ipfs stats dht` dumps your `wan` routing table buckets which all have up to ~20 nodes.
While with `ipfs stats dht` it shows 1 single buckets that have ~20k nodes (or whatever big the network is).

**Caveats:**
1. Running the experimental client likely will result in more resource consumption (connections, RAM, CPU, bandwidth)
   - Users that are limited in the number of parallel connections their machines/networks can perform will likely suffer
   - The resource usage is not smooth as the client crawls the network in rounds and reproviding is similarly done in rounds
   - Users who previously had a lot of content but were unable to advertise it on the network will see an increase in
     egress bandwidth as their nodes start to advertise all of their CIDs into the network. If you have lots of data

>      entering your node that you don't want to advertise consider using [Reprovider Strategies](#reproviderstrategy)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     entering your node that you don't want to advertise, then consider using [Reprovider Strategies](#reproviderstrategy)
```

     to reduce the number of CIDs that you are reproviding. Similarly, if you are running a node that deals mostly with
     short-lived temporary data (e.g. you use a separate node for ingesting data then for storing and serving it) then

>      you may benefit from using [Strategic Providing](experimental-features#strategic-providing) to prevent advertising

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     you may benefit from using [Strategic Providing](experimental-features.md#strategic-providing) to prevent advertising
```

     of data that you ultimately will not have.
2. Currently, the DHT is not usable for queries for the first 5-10 minutes of operation as the routing table is being

> prepared. This means operations like searching the DHT for particular peers or content will not work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
prepared. This means operations like searching the DHT for particular peers or content will not work initially.
```

How does this align with the statement above that "The standard DHT client (and server if enabled) are run alongside the accelerated DHT client".  Given we also run the standard client, I would have thought this should still work.

Type: `optionalString` (`null`/missing means the default)

### `Routing.AcceleratedDHTClient`

Utilizes an alternative DHT client that searches for and maintains more information
about the network in exchange for being more performant.

This is not compatible with `Routing.Type` `custom`. If you are using composable routers
you can configure this individualy on each router.

When it is enabled:
- DHT operations should complete much faster than with it disabled
- A batching reprovider system will be enabled which takes advantage of some
  properties of the experimental client to very efficiently put provider records into the network
- The standard DHT client (and server if enabled) are run alongside the accelerated DHT client
- The operations `ipfs stats dht` will default to showing information about the accelerated DHT client

**Caveats:**

> 1. Running the experimental client likely will result in more resource consumption (connections, RAM, CPU, bandwidth)

Author: I don't think so

Type: `optionalString` (`null`/missing means the default)

### `Routing.AcceleratedDHTClient`

Utilizes an alternative DHT client using a Full-Routing-Table strategy, it will
every hour do a complete scan of the DHT and record all nodes found.
Then when a lookup is tried instead of having to go through multiple Kad hops it
is able to find the 20 final nodes by looking up the recorded network table.

This means you trade off cpu and memory due to the extra periodic scans and more
records to keep. However the latency of individual operations should be ~10x faster
and the provide throughput up to 6 millions times faster.

This is not compatible with `Routing.Type` `custom`. If you are using composable routers
you can configure this individualy on each router.

When it is enabled:
- DHT operations (reads and writes) should complete much faster giving lower latency
- The provider will now use a keyspace sweeping mode allowing to keep alive
  CID sets that are multiple orders of magnitude bigger alive.

> - The standard Bucket-Routing-Table DHT will still run for the DHT server if a
>   mode that enables the DHT server is used. This means the classical routing
>   table will still be used to answer other nodes, this is because this is critical
>   to get right in order to not harm the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The standard Bucket-Routing-Table DHT will still run for the DHT server (if the DHT server is enabled). This means the classical routing
  table will still be used to answer other nodes.
  This is critical to maintain to not harm the network.
```
